# Reflection

There was a lot of data we were able to use in this assignment and it was really interesting to see the 'datafication' of Covid-19 by performing our own analysis. There was not much need for standardizing in this project as the dates for the mask mandates and the dates for the number of cases overlapped. One thing that had to be fixed was that for the dates where there was no information about mask mandates instead of leaving it as a null value, I replaced it with a value indicating there was no mask mandate. It is easy to conclude that before we have data about mask mandates there was no mask mandate. I chose not to model the delay between infection, symptoms and testing positive. We don't know how much time it takes between the events and I believed just moving the averages for the graph would do more harm than good. 

It was interesting to see the effect of masking from the visualizations I have created. It is hard to see just the effect of mask mandates on the number of covid cases because there are so many other factors to be considered. Holidays, reopening of bars and restaurants and vaccines are just some of the many factors that could also contribute to the rate of Covid-19 in Philadelphia. From the graph we can see that when the mask mandate was first introduced there was not much change in the rate of Covid-19. Once the mask mandate was removed it remained steady for a little while but then increased drastically. This may be due to the time it takes for infection to occur. After the peak, there was still a decrease in the rate of Covid-19 even with no mask mandate. Overall I think we can get a little bit of information from these visualizations but nothing to make a solid scientific conclusion about.

I simply modeled the masking compliance using a pie chart. I know pie charts are not usually favorable, but in this case we have very simple data which made a simple visualization the best choice. We are able to quickly see the overall mask compliance in Philadelphia. Here we can see that most people do comply with the local mask mandates which make the other visualizations more reliable. The first two graphs would make no sense looking at the difference between the rates of Covid-19 during mask mandates and no mask mandates if no one was following the mask mandates.

Overall when looking at mask mandates I chose to only include whether there was a mask mandate or not. I did not add the extra information about what kind of mask mandate. I believe this is enough to look at the overall trend and adding the types of mandates would make the graph too complicated and not easily interpratable. 

I thought the possiblity of collaboration really helped me with this assignment. It always helps to discuss ideas with your peers. This allows me to think of new ideas as well as learn from my peers. One thing I added to my code based off of discussion from was the addition of change points. I had never used change points before but after discussing with my peers I concluded it was a useful addition to the project. I was able to learn about a new topic and was able to reuse and implement code by TharunReddy to add these change points to my graphs. It was also interesting to discuss how different some of our counties were. My county did implement a mas mandate by some people such as Urmika Kasi and RohitL did not have any mask mandates. They were modeling voluntary mask use which is very different than how I modeled my mask mandates. This was a great discussion where I was able to learn more about the differences in data. The collobrative aspect only helped, never hurt me during this assignment.
